


 Transcript of Judge Marilyn Hall Patel's ruling

 Editor's note: Last week, U.S. District Judge Marilyn Hall
 Patel ruled that the popular online music-swapping site
 Napster must halt the distribution of copyrighted material
 by midnight PT Friday, July 28.

 Faced with going out of business, Napster quickly filed an
 appeal with 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals; with hours to
 spare, the company received a stay on the injunction.

 This is a complte transcript of Patel's decision, which was
 issued orally, in which she explains the basis for granting
 the injunction. Because it marks one of the first times a
 judge has issued a decion in a case of online
 music-swapping, Patel's interpretation of the law is likely
 to be widely cited in subsequent cases and will be crucial
 to the Court of Appeals as it grapples wih the case.

 The court: Well, counsel. A lot of paper has been filed in
 this case and I suppose we could hear a lot more argument,
 and we could take a lot more time with this. And ultimately
 I will reduce the court's decision to writing, but I think
 it's time for there to be a decision on the reliminary
 injunction motion because you have been waiting for this and
 you have been through a round of motions ealier under the
 Digital Millennium Copyright Act. I think that plenty of
 time has been expended in preparing for the motion.
 Certainly plenty of papre has been expended as well, that
 the court is able to render a decision on the motion for
 preliminary injunction.

 To prevail on a motion for preliminary injunction--and this
 is going to take a while because I'm going to go through the
 elements and the claims and defenses--but to prevail on a
 motion for a preliminary injunction, plaintiffs must
 demonstrate a combination of probable success on the
 merits--and possibility of irreparable harm or on the
 continuum scale of serious lagel questions that are
 raised--and a balance of hardships tipping in the
 plaintiffs' favor. I think it's safer to stay with the first
 of those; in other words, the higher end of the continuum.

 In copyright cases the reasonable likelihood of success on
 the merits does create a presumption or irreparable harm.
 And don't everybody go bolting for the door, but I will tell
 you right now what my conclusion is on that and then go
 thrugh the reasons for it.

 I find that plaintiffs have shown not just a reasonable
 likelihood of success but a strong likelihood of success on
 the merits. First of all with respect to  [Napster wildfire]
 diret infringement, because in order to
 establish either contributory or vicarious liability, they
 must establish direct infringement by a third party, in this
 case the users of Napster.

 And here the evidence establishes that a majority of Napster
 users use the service to download and upload copyrighted
 music. This, in fact, should come as no surprise to Napster,
 since that really--it's clear from the evidence in this case
 and the early records that were divulged in discovery--was
 the purpose of it.

 And by doing that, it constitutes--the uses
 constitute--direct infringement of plaintiffs' musical
 compositions--recordings that are copyrighted. And it is
 pretty much acknowledged also by Napster that this is
 infringement unless they can fall back on an affirmative
 defense because of the warnings that are given to the users
 of the system that they may be infringing and by statements
 made in their own documents when this business was getting
 off the ground.

 Also, according to the evidence before the court, as much as
 87 percent of the music--and I think that's a fairly
 reasonable figure and fairly well supported in the
 evidence--87 percent of the music available on Napster may
 be copyrighted. Certainly a substantial amount of it is.

 Now, defendants have raised the fair use defense. That is an
 affirmative defense. Defendants have the burden on that
 defense, and to rebut allegations of infringement, they have
 raised this based upon Sony and its progeny, but
 particularly Sony, where the Supreme Court stated that any
 indiivdual may reproduce a copyrighted work for a fair use.

 Sony also stands for the rule that a manufacturer is not
 liable for selling a staple article of commerce, and that's
 in quotes from the case, that is, quote, "capable of
 commercially significant noninfringing uses."

 Fair use and substantial noninfringing use arguments are in
 fact affirmative defenses, and defendant, as I said, has the
 burden of showing that a given use constitutes a fair use.

 The court finds that--and then I'll go through the elements
 of this--but the finding is that any of the potential
 noninfringing uses of the Napster service are minimal. Some
 of them seem to be thought of them afterward and after this
 litigation started; but the substantial or commercially
 significant use of the service was and continues to be
 copying popular music, most of which is copyrighted and for
 which no authorization has been obtained.

 While it may be capable of some of these other things, that
 seems to--those uses seem to--pale by comparison to what
 Napster is used for, what it was promoted for, and what it
 continues to be used for.

 Now, the court must consider, and the factors the court must
 consider, among others, is, the four that are specifically
 enumerated in Sony are: The purpose and characteristic of
 use, including whether it's of a commercial nature; the
 nature of the copyrighted work; the amount and
 substantiality of the portion used in relation to the
 copyrighted work as a whole; and the effect of the use upon
 the potential market for value of the copyrighted work.

 I think there's not much dispute with respect to the second
 and third factors. The copyrighted musical compositions and
 recordings certainly are the paradigmatic kinds of things
 for which copyrights are obtained. They're creative in
 nature. They constitute entertainment and also the third
 factor. They are, in fact, uploaded or downloaded, or at
 least can be and generally are, in their entirety. Certainly
 they're generally made available in their entirety.

 As to the first factor, the court finds that although
 downloading and uploading MP3 music is not a paradigmatic
 commercial activity, it is not also typical of the personal
 use--that is, in the traditional sense. It may be what makes
 this case difficult--or any of the cases involving new
 technology--is that it is hard sometimes to make a neat fit.

 The mere fact that, that fit is not an easy one does not
 mean that plaintiffs have to forego enforcing their rights
 under the copyright laws.

 Plaintiffs have not shown that the majority of Napster users
 download the music for sale or for profit, and it would
 appear that they probably do not. However, there is evidence
 that Napster anticipates proudly that more than 70 million
 users by the end of the year 2000 will be on Napster in some
 fashion or another.

 Given the vast scale which Napster and the Internet can in
 fact access--numbers and numbers of users--and that the uses
 among anonymous individuals, not just a sharing among
 friends and typical of the more private use, that cases have
 seen at the very least a host user sending a file cannot be
 said to engage merely in the typical personal use when
 distributing the file to, in this case, many anonymous
 requesters.

 Moreover, the fact that Napster users get for free something
 they ordinarily would have to pay for suggests that they
 reap--the users reap--an economic advantage from Napster
 use.

 As to the fourth factor, plaintiffs have produced evidence
 that Napster use harms the market for the copyrighted work
 in at least two ways, and we've had a number of studies, and
 I will spell out in the order the problems with some of
 those studies. I don't think any of them are, you know, what
 you would call without flaw.

 But selecting out college students, I don't think was
 inappropriate and, therefore, does not negate the entire
 study. What it makes clear to the court, however, is that it
 is only looking at college students and, therefore, we know
 that it's only looking at a segment of the market.
 Nonetheless, a segment that Napster itself has said it has
 targeted. And it gives us a snapshot, particularly for
 preliminary injunction purposes, of what is happening in a
 particular market.

 I find that the Fader report is far less persuasive. First
 of all, he relies upon a number of studies that were printed
 in The Wall Street Journal and Wired and New York Times, and
 so forth, which may be fine for marketing purposes and
 strategizing, but it doesn't do very much for a reliable
 survey for court purposes. I commend to you Judge
 Schwarzer's book in that respect.

 But, in any event, even as to the evaluation of the
 Greenfield survey, I think there are a number of problems
 with the Greenfield survey. But we don't really have a
 breakdown other than that one sheet at the end, and it
 doesn't tell us very much at all about what the answers
 really were. At least in the Jay report we have the answers
 that were given to the questions in the questionnaire. So
 it's far greater use and more probative to the court than
 the Fader report.
